Suppose if you have 5 shirts 

S    M     L   XL    XXL

These are shirts with different size>.

If you wear a L size shirt mean L is your shirt size and instead of L you wear XXL shirt then that shirt will be overfit for you and you may come in embarrassment situation.

So this also same happen with microservice if you didn't take care of sizing of microservices.

So before development start we need to identify the size of the microservice.

How to identify the size of microservice :-

There are two approaches -
1) Domain Driven Sizing
2) Event Sizing Storming

1) Domain Driven Sizing :-

Many years ago a talented software designer added an editing feature he called “Divide and Conquer” to a popular newspaper layout program. This feature was well-designed, but nobody used it. Here’s why:

The name “divide and conquer” had no meaning in relation to newspaper layout.
Nobody could explain what the feature did or why you would use it.
Nobody asked for the feature and nobody wanted it.
Essentially, more focus was placed on what could be done with the program instead of considering why it should be done. 

Enter domain-driven design (DDD), an approach to software development that focuses on fully understanding the domain where the software will be applied. 
When you understand the domain, you reduce the risk of adding features that your customers don’t need or want.

      Advantages :-

       i)   Business and development are aligned
       ii)  Protects domain knowledge
       iii) More flexibility
       iv)  Easy to track
       v)   Better application balance
       vi)  Better code

  (in case you need in detail explanation :-   https://www.lucidchart.com/blog/domain-driven-design-introduction )

2) Event Sizing Storming :-

Event storming drives greater understanding and productivity by simplifying the approach and including multiple levels of stakeholders in the business. 
With the help of sticky notes and a willing group, you can reveal your business processes more efficiently and enjoyably.

        Advantages :-
        
          i)    Fast
          ii)   Straightforward
          iii)  Engaging
          iv)   Effective

    (in case you need in detail explanation :-  https://www.lucidchart.com/blog/ddd-event-storming  )
